Overview:

Corona virus are a family of viruses that can cause illnesses such as the common cold, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).
In 2019, a new coronavirus was identified as the cause of a disease outbreak that originated in China.
COVID-19 is the disease caused by coronavirus.
First case was identified in Wuhan, China at the end of December 2019.
In March 2020, the World Health Organization WHO declared this virus as a pandemic.
A novel coronavirus (CoV) is a new strain of coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans.

Humans become infected with a novel coronavirus of animal source:
Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans in China in 2002 and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and
several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans.

Symptoms and signs:
It depends on the virus, but common signs include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties and
in more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.

Transmission from one person to another:
Yes, some coronaviruses can transmit from person to person, usually after close contact with an infected patient,
for example, in a household workplace, or health care centre.

Vaccination:
When a disease is new, there is no vaccine until one is developed and it can take a number of years for a new vaccine to be developed.

Treatment:
Till now, there is no specific treatment for this disease
However, many of them (based on some symptoms) can be treated and therefore treatment based on the patient clinical condition.

Protect myself or Prevention:
Standard recommendations to reduce exposure to and transmission of a range of illnesses include maintaining basic hand and respiratory hygiene,
and safe food practices and avoiding close contact, when possible, with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and
sneezing.

Health workers at risk:
Yes, they can be, as health care workers come into contact with patients more often than the general public
WHO recommends that health care workers consistently apply appropriate.

When to see a doctor:
If you have emergency COVID-19 signs, such as trouble breathing, chest pain or pressure, confusion, or blue lips or face, seek care immediately.

Travelling:
If you're planning to travel, first check the CDC and WHO websites for updates and advice.

Schools or Colleges opening:
For school and college, check the CDC and WHO websites for updates and advice (better not to form group gatherings).

Companies and Factories openings:
For company and factory, check the CDC and WHO websites for updates and advice.

